<font size="5"> **Git** </font>

<font size="4"> **Git Configuration** </font>

---

<!-- TOC tocDepth:2..3 chapterDepth:2..6 -->

- [1. Git Installation](#1-git-installation)
- [2. Initial Git configuration](#2-initial-git-configuration)
- [3. Clone the repository in your pc](#3-clone-the-repository-in-your-pc)
- [4. Open the repository (2 Options)](#4-open-the-repository-2-options)
- [5. .gitignore File](#5-gitignore-file)

<!-- /TOC -->

---

## 1. Git Installation

To install Git on your computer (only if you're using Windows, as it's already installed on Ubuntu), follow these steps:

1. Download the Git installer for your operating system from the official Git homepage: [https://git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
2. Run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the installation.
3. Once installed, open the command line and verify that Git is installed correctly by running the following command:

````bash
git --version
````

If Git is installed correctly, you will see the version of Git you are using.

## 2. Initial Git configuration

> [!NOTE]
> Steps 1 and 2 for windows only

1. When you've successfully run the installer, you should see the Git installation wizard screen. Select the "Next" and "Finish" options to complete the installation. The default options are the most logical in most cases.
2. Open in file explorer your personal `C:\Users<your user>` or `~/` folder in Ubuntu, right click and open `Git Bash` or whatever terminal you use.
3. Run the following commands to set up your GitHub username and email (replace the code name with your own). This information will be associated with all commits you create:

    ````bash
    git config --global user.name "Antonio Sanchez"
    git config --global user.email "antoniosanchez@domain.es"
    git config --global http.sslbackend schannel
    ````

4. Now we generate an SSH key so that we don't have to enter the credentials after each git operation. In the console where we were before, we run the following command:

    ````bash
    ssh-keygen -t rsa
    ````

    The following message or similar will appear:

    ````bash
    Generating public/private rsa key pair.
    Enter file in which to save the key (/home/user/.ssh/id_rsa):
    ````

    Press `enter` to leave the default option. In the next lines we do the same:

    ````bash
    Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase):
    Enter same passphrase again:
    ````

    Then we will have generated our SSH key. We then run the following command (if doesn't work, continue reading):

    ````bash
     windows
    type .ssh\id_rsa.pub
    
     ubuntu
    cat .ssh/id_rsa.pub
    ````

    Copy everything that appears in the console and paste it into the following link [https://github.com/settings/keys](https://github.com/settings/keys), in the New Key > Key box, add a title (e.g. clave_ugr) and press ``Add SSH key``.

    **IMPORTANT**: if it is not shown on the screen, look in: /home/user/.ssh/ (in my case, C:\Users\Usuario\.ssh), open the file id_rsa.pub (with notepad) and copy the text after "ssh-rsa ".


5. Change default branch name in git (not compulsory but recommended)

    Default git name is master, and default github name is main. It is recommended to put the same (we choose main), so:

    ````bash
    git config --global init.defaultBranch main
    ````

## 3. Clone the repository in your pc

Go to the folder where you want to clone the repository and right-click to open ``Git Bash` or whatever terminal you use, and run the following:

````bash
git clone <https://github.com/><repository-name>.git
````

For instance:

````bash
git clone https://github.com/asanchezlc/VSC_Test_Enrique.git
````

This will create a folder with the name of the project, where you can work with integrated Git.


## 4. Open the repository (2 Options)

1. - Open Visual Studio Code.
   - Click ``Open Folder...``.
   - Select the folder where you previously cloned your repository.

---

2. - In your file explorer, open the folder where you previously cloned your repository.
   - Right-click and select ``Open Git Bash here``.
   - Then, run the following command: ``code .``.

---

## 5. .gitignore File

The .gitignore file is used to specify which files git should not track. This is very useful as many times files are generated which are not necessary to track.

For example, when opening an .sdb model of SAP2000, a multitude of files are generated. All of these files are automatically deleted when you close SAP2000; it is therefore useless (and problematic) for git to track them.

In the .gitignore file, you specify the files that you do not want to be tracked

````bash
# .gitignore file

# Virtual environment will not be followed by git
.env
.venv
env/
venv/
ENV/
env.bak/
venv.bak/
````

IMPORTANT: When creating a repository on GitHub, the .gitignore file can be generated automatically (recommended). In addition, we can manually specify on it other files that we do not want to be tracked.

````bash
# Example: in this repository we created a folder called "Untracked", whose files we don't want to track except txt files
Untracked/* # we exclude all files in that folder
Untracked/*.txt # with the exception of .txt
````