<font size="5"> **GitHub** </font>

<font size="4"> **Create Pull Request** </font>

---

<!-- TOC tocDepth:2..3 chapterDepth:2..6 -->

- [1. Creating a `Pull Request` on GitHub](#1-creating-a-pull-request-on-github)
  - [1.1. PR Descriptions on GitHub](#11-pr-descriptions-on-github)
  - [1.2. Assignment and reviewers](#12-assignment-and-reviewers)
  - [1.3. Prepare the code for review](#13-prepare-the-code-for-review)

<!-- /TOC -->

---

## 1. Creating a `Pull Request` on GitHub

1. When you publish a branch you will get a green `Create new pull request` message.
2. The source and target branches will be linked automatically. Otherwise, select the branch you want to merge from the "base" drop-down list and the branch you want to merge from the "compare" drop-down list.
3. The title of the PR, by default, is the title of the first commit. If the message of the first commit is descriptive enough, leave it that way. Otherwise, put a descriptive message for the PR.

> [!NOTE]
> The names of both commits and PRs, by convention, are written in standard form (capital letters, spaces, etc.) and in English.

### 1.1. PR Descriptions on GitHub

Complete the **title** and **description** of the PR so the reviewer understands the changes you've made. If you are working with a GitHub project, including `This PR resolves #XX` in the description will automatically link the PR to the project issue.

Make sure your commit messages are descriptive.

### 1.2. Assignment and reviewers

In **assignees** select who is in charge of the PR.

If you want someone to review the PR, you can assign them as a **reviewer** in the right navigation bar.

### 1.3. Prepare the code for review

Review the changes made to the branch. If there are merge conflicts, resolve them or report them.

Click the green `Create pull request` button to submit the Pull Request.

